Supervised Learning:

the learning in which we mould our inputs in accordance with correct output.

Example: Comparing spam with legitimate email


Types:
1. Classification model predicts possible outcomes. Example: Predicting if a transaction is fraud or not.

2. Regression model - Are used to predict a numerical value. Example: Predicting the sale price of a house.



Unsupervised Learning: 

models are trained using unlabeled dataset, models itself find the hidden patterns and insights from the given data.

Example: Customer Segmentation






Reinforcement Learning:

Learning by trial and error. This is the closest to how humans learn. 
The motivation is to find optimal policy of how to act in a given environment. 
The machine learning model examines all possible actions, makes a policy that maximizes benefit, and implements the policy(trial). 
If there are errors from the initial policy, apply reinforcements back into the algorithm and continue to do this until you reach the optimal policy.

Example: Personalized recommendations on streaming platforms like YouTube.





Classification error metrics:

Accuracy:
no. of correct predictions / total no. of predictions   -> TP + TN / total


model error | misclassification rate (how often is the model wrong) -> FP + FN / total


Recall TP/ TP + FN


Precision TP/ TP + FP 


F1 score:
combination of recall and precision






Confusion matrix:

consider an example of model predicting disease

True Positive : patient has the disease and model predicting that it has the disease


True Negative : patient does'nt has the disease and model predicting that it does'nt has the disease


False Positive : patient does'nt has the disease and model predicting that it has the disease


False Negative : patient has the disease and model predicting that it does'nt has the disease






Regression error metrics:

Regression is when model predicts continuous values unlike categorical values (which is classification)


Independent Variable (x) 
Dependent Variable (y)


ML models Usage:

Linear Regression:

Linear Regression is a machine learning algorithm based on supervised learning.
Linear regression is used to predict the value of a variable based on the value of another variable.
It performs a regression task. Regression models a target prediction value based on independent variables.
The variable you want to predict is called the dependent variable. The variable you are using to predict the other variable's value is called the independent variable.
Linear Regression can be used to generate insights on consumer behaviour, understanding business and factors influencing profitability. Linear regressions can be used in business to evaluate trends and make estimates or forecasts.
For example, if a company’s sales have increased steadily every month for the past few years, by conducting a linear analysis on the sales data with monthly sales, the company could forecast sales in future months.
Furthermore, predicting house prices and app usage for business growth.




Logistic Regression:

Logistic regression is an example of supervised learning.
Logistic regression is a statistical analysis method to predict a binary outcome, such as yes or no, based on prior observations of a data set.
An example of logistic regression could be applying machine learning to determine if a person is likely to be infected with COVID-19 or not.
In health care, logistic regression can be used to predict if a tumor is likely to be benign or malignant.
A credit card company wants to know whether transaction amount and credit score impact the probability of a given transaction being fraudulent.
In marketing, logistic regression can be used to predict if a targeted audience will respond or not/ whether they click on the ad or not.




K nearest Neighbors:

The k-nearest neighbors (KNN) algorithm is a supervised machine learning algorithm that can be used to solve both classification and regression problems.
K-NN algorithm assumes the similarity between the new case and available cases and put the new case into the category that is most similar to the available categories.
It uses proximity to make classifications or predictions about the grouping of an individual data point.
Applications are:
Text Mining
Facial recognition
Recommendation systems (Amazon, Hulu, Netflix, etc)



Decision Tree:
Decision Trees is supervised learning method used for classification and regression.
A Decision Tree is a Flow Chart, and can help you make decisions based on previous experience.
In Decision Tree internal nodes represent the features of a dataset, branches represent the decision rules and each leaf node represents the outcome.

For example, you might want to choose between manufacturing item A or item B, or investing in choice 1, choice 2, or choice 3.
Decision Tree may have an overfitting issue, which can be resolved using the Random Forest algorithm.




Random Forest:
Random Forest is supervised learning technique for both Classification and Regression problems.
Random Forest is a classifier that grows and combines multiple decision trees to create a “forest” on various subsets of the given dataset and takes the average to improve the predictive accuracy of that dataset.

Example: Bank use this algorithm for the identification of loan risk.
         We can identify the areas of similar land use by this algorithm.
         Stock price prediction/trends
         



SVM:
Support Vector Machine or SVM is one of the most popular Supervised Learning algorithms, which is used for Classification as well as Regression problems.
The goal of the SVM algorithm is to create the best line or decision boundary that can segregate n-dimensional space among data into classes so that we can easily put the new data point in the correct category in the future. This best decision boundary is called a hyperplane.
SVM chooses the extreme points/vectors that help in creating the hyperplane. These extreme cases are called as support vectors, and hence algorithm is termed as Support Vector Machine.

SVM algorithm can be used for Face detection, image classification, Handwriting Recognition and text categorization.





K means clustering:
k-means is a technique for data clustering that may be used for unsupervised machine learning. It is capable of classifying unlabeled data into a predetermined number of clusters based on similarities (k).













